---
layout: post
title: Reflection
description: Blog posts about experiences
image: assets/images/Reflect.png
nav-menu: true
---
<p>
<b><u>Year One</u></b>
<i>01.01.2023</i>
There was a plan, and then things changed. For the better. 
Originally accepted to a Master of Secondary Education for Biology and Chemistry at Griffith University in Australia, I was excited and eager to build on my teaching experience, thinking that this is what I was meant to do. From an ESL teacher in South Korea and China I was on my way to becoming a full-fledged educator. All planned out and ready to go …… and then COVID-19!! Like for many people, life came to an abrupt halt.  The silver lining in that whole situation was time, time and the opportunity to take up some new and old hobbies, restructure my plans and to look back and reflect as to what I wanted to get out of my life. I began to realize that although I enjoyed teaching, becoming a secondary teacher wasn’t the right choice after all. It didn’t feel right and those plans began to fade away. Spending a lot of time with the few people in our ‘bubble’ including a close family friend, we started talking about other opportunities. Fast forward to today. That first conversation got me to where I am today, on my journey to becoming a Data Scientist.  After initially spending a considerable amount of time researching prospects of a career in Data Science, I decided my best option would be to obtain a Master of Data Science. Applied, accepted and so it begins…… off to Cairns Australia to begin a Master of Data Science program at James Cook University.
During my first year in the program, I enrolled in the following seven courses: Database Systems, Data Visualisation, Statistical Methods for Data Science, Foundations for Data Science, Professional Employability, Programming and Analytics using Python and Data Mining. 
The first introductory course was Database Systems. This course gives special attention to database design, practice, and assessments in designing a data model and implementing the model into a real database using MySQL. Throughout the course a variety of topics were covered: i) Data, Information, Databases and Database Design, ii) Database (DB) and Database Management Systems (DBMS) iii) Why is Database Design Important? iv) Data Processing before DB & DBMS(Evolution of File System), v) The Database System Environment, vi) Data Modelling and Data Models, vii) Gathering Information – Business Rule, and viii) The Relational Database Model (RDBM).  
Following this course, we were introduced to Data Visualisation and the power of storytelling using data. This involves taking data and first understanding it. The next step entails data processing, extracting value from it, visualising it, and finally and importantly, communicating this information. During this time we investigated paradigms and techniques for transformation into images that effectively and accurately present this information. Tools taught in effectively assisting in these tasks include topics include: i) Visualisation fundamentals, ii) Deep dive into Tableau, iii) Data representation and abstraction, iv) Visualising data, v) Interactivity: processing complex datasets, and vi) Advanced Tableau and visualisation topics.
Next, Foundations of Data Science was introduced where I learned the fundamentals of what makes up data science. In this course students are introduced to, and become very familiar with R and RStudio, as well as topics such as i) Data representation, ii) Visualisations, iii) Data Wrangling iv) Data tidying, and v) Algorithms analysis.  
Statistical Methods for Data Science was the next course. This course offered insight into the variety of statistical methods used in real-world data science projects through RStudio. Continuation of RStudio use allowed me to refine and master skills on this platform, and this course provided me with the ability to efficiently and effectively implement statistical methods, interpret the outputs and communicate important findings, all using a variety of packages offered in RStudio. Topics covered in this course included i) Introduction to statistics, ii) Introduction to R and RStudio, iii) Probability distributions, iv) Confidence intervals and significance tests, v) Non-parametric tests, and vi) Linear modelling. 
Transitioning to another popular platform used in data science involved learning Python in a Programming and Data Analytics course.  I learned about the building blocks of fundamental programming such as decision and repetition structures, functions and modules, as well as data science-specific libraries, tools and techniques. Libraries applied in the data science field are also used for reading, processing and visualising data, and emphasize writing clean code that follows accepted industry and language standards, in order to provide quality work that is readable, maintainable and extensible. The following topics are covered in the Python programming course:  i) Decisions, ii) Repetitions and Functions, iii) Lists, Dictionaries, Files and Exceptions, iv) Numpy and Pandas, and v) Advanced Numpy and Visualisations. 
Taking a break from platforms such as MySQL, RStudio and Python, an important, and in my opinion, vital aspect of initial success in one’s line of work is the Professional Employability course. In this course we covered topics such as i) Employability Foundations and Success, ii) Career Research and Success Profiling, iii) Enterprise Skills and Role Research, iv) Career Management Competencies and Employability Development Planning, v) Employability Development Application vi) Personal Brand, Proposition and Narrative, vii) Network Fundamentals, and viii) Job Search and Recruitment Process. In addition to this, I was fortunate enough to connect with a few talented individuals within the data science community who graciously offered effective tips and provided mentoring advice and insights into a variety of possible roles and responsibilities that I may encounter in my future profession. 
Finishing off a successful year, my final course was Data Mining where I continued with RStudio and was introduced to discovering causes and interpretation of data based on different techniques for generating either one-off insights or forming the basis of a statistical model where many different techniques are used consecutively. Throughout the course, I was given numerous problems that, as data scientists, we aimed to solve in the context of data mining. Most of these problems required categorization into classification, outlier detection, clustering, or pattern recognition. The topics taught and discussed in detail were as follows: i) Bayes Classifiers; LDA, QDA and Naïve Bayes, ii) kNN and Logistic Regression, iii) Clustering Analysis, iv) Outlier Detection and PCA, and v) Basket Analysis and Recommender Systems. 
Overall, this year’s studies have allowed me to receive a Graduate Certificate of Data Science with Distinction (Found in the Education and Training tab on my website) as I continue towards completing my Master of Data Science. As I look back to 2019, were it not for the time afforded by having to stay at home during COVID-19, I would not be where I am today, sitting here and writing this post. I am beyond grateful for the journey so far; the people I’ve met, the support I’ve received from friends, family and mentors, the overall experiences and most importantly, I am grateful for the knowledge I’ve gained. I very much love what I am doing and I can honestly say that I’ve made a good decision. It has been a great ride and without a doubt, never a dull moment. I look forward with anticipation to new courses and especially the professional employment coming up in 2023. Stay tuned !
Thank you for taking the time to read this. Happy New Year!
</p>

