---
layout: post
title: Solving the Online Job Maze- Implementing WebCrawlers and Investigating NLP Systems to Simplify Complex JOb Posts and Identify Skill Trends within the Currrent Job Market.
description:
image: assets/images/Job.png
---
In the dynamic job market, while exploring opportunities on online job platforms, two persistent challenges surface: deciphering diverse job posting layouts to understand key role characteristics and staying informed about companies' technical skills expectations. These challenges resonate not only from personal experience but is also evident in reputable domain-published articles and discussion forums. From the amount of information stuffed into a typical job description, the endless stream of qualifications and responsibilities to fulfill (Humphry, J. 2022), inconsistency in the job posting formats, where each job description looks different (Gere. 2015), unnecessary jargon and lack of clear direction or insight into the job's fundamental basis, can leave qualified candidates feeling confused, underqualified, and ultimately resulting in the possible deterrent of application submission, creating missed opportunities. To do this, I propose leveraging Natural Language Processing (NLP), a recognized field in machine learning for handling unstructured text data (MonkeyLearn. n.d.). By implementing NLP text summarization tools such as TextRank, Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA), T5, and BART, we can analyze long and ‘noisy’ job posts containing jargon, complicated terms, and unnecessary information, and provide a standard, simplified job summary, making them more user-friendly and comprehensible to a wider range of potential candidates (TRITON AI PTE LTD, 2023). We can then apply ROUGE evaluation metrics, assessing unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams using precision, recall, and F1 scores to evaluate the performance of each model. Additionally, to identify trending technical skills within a job domain we can create an initial technical skills list by applying domain knowledge, and then implement Word2Vec, to find semantic relationships between the initial words and other closely relevant technical skill phrases/ words (Nuri, 2020) to add to our list. We can then iterate through the job postings and identify the most frequently mentioned technical skills within the job market for the desired field of study, which for this report, the sample is Data Science jobs in Brisbane. Collectively, users will have a less overwhelming, easier job search experience, with the additional knowledge of the trending technical skills in the job market currently desired by companies
