---
layout: post
title: Decrypting Customer Behaviour - Implementation of Logistic Regression to Predict Subscription Term Deposit.
description: RStudio Report
image: assets/images/Unemployment.png
---
In Australia, over the last four decades, the unemployment rate has experienced significant changes, peaking at 11.15% in December 1992, reaching its lowest recorded point of 3.47% in December 2022, and currently standing at 3.58% as of the latest survey in March 2023. These trends are influenced by various factors, including global economic conditions, domestic policies, and structural shifts in the Australian economy. The Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) plays an important role in gathering and analyzing labor market data through a monthly labor force survey of approximately 50,000 Australians aged 15 and above, categorized into three groups: Employed, Unemployed, and Not in the Labor Force. From this data, crucial indicators such as the labor force, unemployment rate, and participation rate are calculated, providing vital insights into employment patterns. This report focuses on the unemployment rate, a key indicator representing the percentage of the labor force actively seeking employment. It offers valuable insights into the overall economic health of Australia, where a rising rate can signal an economic slowdown or recession, while a decreasing rate implies the opposite. The purpose of this report is to analyze the ‘AUS data 2023.xlsx’ dataset, which contains aggregated quarterly rates of unemployment and other relevant economic factors from December 1982 to March 2023. The objectives are to: i) address any dataset issues, such as missing values, ii) identify how relevant factors influence the unemployment rate, iii) Construct and evaluate various supervised machine learning algorithms (SMLAs), including Ridge and Lasso Regression, Decision Trees (employing Bagging and Random Forest with bootstrapping, and Boosting), and Support Vector Machines (SVM) with linear, radial, and polynomial kernels. This aims to ascertain the most effective algorithm, iv) formulate and assess an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) with 1-3 layers, leveraging Adam, ReLU, and RMSprop optimizers to forecast the unemployment rate, v) Compare the performances of the selected machine learning models with the ANN model, and vi) present a recommended model based on the comprehensive analysis.
