---
layout: post
title: Optimizing Convolutional Neural Networks for Soil Classification - A Comprehensive Journey.
description: Convolutional Neural Networks.
image: assets/images/CNN.png
---
Explore the journey of building, training, and deploying a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) tailored for soil image classification. This project delves into the intricate process of designing CNN architectures, implementing various techniques like Batch Normalization, Dropout, and Early Stoppage, and conducting hyperparameter tuning to optimize model performance. Beginning with the foundational understanding of CNNs, the project proposes two variations of a simple CNN, each with distinctive layers and parameters tailored to the soil image classification task. These base models serve as the starting point for a series of experiments aimed at enhancing model robustness and generalization capabilities. Throughout the project, techniques such as Batch Normalization, Dropout, and Padding are systematically applied to combat challenges like overfitting and limited model expressiveness. Hyperparameter tuning, conducted via cross-validation with grid search and Keras Tuner, fine-tunes critical parameters to maximize model performance. Despite encountering limitations such as computational constraints and a relatively small dataset, the project perseveres by employing data augmentation techniques and exploring architectural variations. The ultimate goal is to develop a CNN architecture capable of effectively classifying soil images with high accuracy. The project culminates in the selection of the best-performing model, Model 10, based on its superior test accuracy of 60.87%. Visualizations and performance breakdowns offer insights into the model's classification capabilities and highlight areas for potential improvement. While acknowledging limitations, such as dataset size and computational constraints, the project emphasizes the importance of continual exploration and optimization in CNN architecture design. By sharing insights and methodologies, this project contributes to the ongoing pursuit of advancing CNNs for soil image classification and encourages further exploration in the field. Project completed using Python.

Report: [A3_Justin_Grima.pdf](https://github.com/JustinGrima/justingrima.github.io/files/14969812/A3_Justin_Grima.pdf)
